# reposleuth
WIP. A tool for visualising, summarising, learning about and engaging with Python repositories. 

#### Purpose
##### A tool in my tookit
Primarily, this repository has been created to support the efforts of my repository [pytest-onboarding](https://github.com/WarrenTheRabbit/pytest-onboarding/blob/main/README.md), which is a *very* early stage WIP for contributing 'contributor case studies' and documentation to [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.4.x/).

##### A *How To* for other junior devs  
A close secondary goal is to create a kind of 'partially explained play-by-play' that a junior dev could use to see how someone else has gone about creating a real and permanent tool for their toolkit in a 'semi-professional way'. You are welcome to code along, base different efforts on it, skim through sections or sing the entire contents of the repository to a metronome if that is best for you. 

However it is you want to use this repository, wonderful, it is here to be used. You have my fullest blessings and you can reach out to me here or on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/warrenmarkham/); if I know how to help, I will.

###### The original hope
My original hope, however, was this: if I document the steps I take to create something that is *whole, meaningful, extensible and usable* then it might help me engage with software engineering in the way that I need to be engaging, while also leaving behind a legacy of documentation that can help someone else take the steps they're needing to take to avoid burnout, depression, lasstitude, hopelessness, etc. 

##### Our needs are fundamental
In life, if we don't make sure our actions are being launched from what is most alive in us, then we flounder and fall into states of powerlessness, disulliosnment and despair. Learning to program is no different. If your programming journey doesn't have elements that allow you to express your core values, or if it doesn't offer vectors by which you can satisfy your deepest human longings, then everything will fall apart. 

Take me for example. I know what I am talking about. I know a thing or two about falling apart! I fell apart in high school. I fell part in my twenties. Even without my best friend committing suicide, I was on a shakey road because I didn't know how to project myself and my vision of who I was, what I wanted or what I stood for into the world. Certainly, if the wheel were to miracoulsly spin around a second time, I may have an easier trot of things. The world *is* different now. 

What *would* happen if we rotated a young Warren through a world just a bit more aware and just a bit more welcoming of difference a second time? Would he have an easier time accepting and understanding the importance of his own needs? Those are defintely some interesting thoughts - not very practical though. And you certainly can't muse over your potatos for too long - if all you do is keep them in the potato sack then, sure as anything, they will go green and then no one gets to have any mash. So let's move on from these musings. 

##### Heading
The bottom line is: I have deep personal experience with not knowing how to communicate, understand or enact the fulfilment of my needs. In fact, I wrote myself some pretty tough lesson plans before I learned the importance of acting with purpose around my deepest needs: breakdown, mental anguish, confusion, fear. But even when you graduate from whichever school of hard knocks you had to attend, you still have to renew what you learned with daily effort, intention and choice. Sometimes you will forget to, or you won't know how to, or you start thinking you aren't good enough and won't be allowed to. That has been true of me. Until very recently, I haven't been doing 'learning to program' in a way that satisfies my needs. I've been avoiding getting involved. I've been avoiding taking responsibility for public codebases. What instead? I've been doing tutorials. I've been reading books. I've been noodling on single code blocks that wil only ever exist on my local machine (and probably not for long) while obsessing over variable names, line lengths, syntax clarity, testability and so on and so forth. For the past year, until just recently, programming has been an activity that I've almostly entirely orphaned from what is most real about my heart and personality. I decided enough is enough. It was time to change my approach to programming. 

#### What I changed
The first change was that I started telling someone in the software community how much I value them: my mentor (Daniel Ma)[]. Soon I started showing more of my heart and self to other people in the programming community. I commented on posts. I sent messages. I was welcomed and supported in the LinkedIn community by Andre, John Cricckett, Dariusz, Bryan and Florian (who I still haven't followed up with about bounded contexts!).  The second change was that I started trying to connect people. Young Warren drowned in isolation. Mature Warren knows he has a deep need to help people flourish and experience movement and potential. So I tried to listen and hear what people were dreaming about and to do something if I could. The third change was that I started contributing to *pytest*. I also dared to showe the pytest core-devs something of my heart: I told them how meaningful it is to be able to contribute, how much I admire all they have achieved and how grateful I am for their past work and current welcome. 
The  The second change was that I started a repository *pytest-onboarding*. This is the third change.


#### Accepting being uncomfortable
None of these changes have gone badly for me. I *did* have to feel fear; instead of playing a video game, watching a tutorial or doing some other thing among an endless carosoul of things I could do to mask and quiet my nervous system, I had to counsel my parts from the executive seat: "I am choosing to be in this situation where I feel fear, and disallowing escapism, because this is the situation I have to be in to act on my values, materially affect the world and have hope in life." As such, many of the above changes were uncomfortable. *Quite* uncomfortable. Writing all of *this* is uncomfortable.



###### Career changers
I need to change how I am approaching programming partly because I am a career changer. Or maybe that doesn't actually matter. But I sometimes think it does. I've been through school. I've fallen in love. I've had my heartbroken. Friends, pets and family members have died. I've had failures. I've had outstanding successes. I've cared unreasonably about the opinions of others. I've suffered in most of the ways that a person can make themselves suffer: I've lied to myself, shamed myself, silenced myself and refused myself compassion and forgiveness. 

All up, I've been through a lot of experiences. I've also learned a lot of lessions. I've learned it is wise to go placidly amidst praise and blame. I've learned I need to travel my own path through the forest instead of the paths laid down by wardens or foot traffic. An A+, an F, Udemy telling me I have completed such and such a course, someone saying I'm smart, someone saying I'm dumb? I've seen how they are just shooting stars in a sky that life has shown me to be very big. Much of what once ruled me no longer has zip and zing; they aren't as real, do not appear as big, as such things once did. But the fact that my partner is a person who has experiences feels real. My choice to be vegan feels real. Helping someone feels real. Getting up in the morning and going to bed feeling like I did something to improve the lives of those I have said Yes to feels real, and it is more important to me than an A+ or a certificate. Is that maturity? Maybe it is. Or maybe it isn't. Maybe all this great tangled yarn ball of life I'm gesturing at is why being a career changer matters. Or maybe being a career changer doesn't matter at all. Who knows. At the bottom of everything a truth remains: I'm not currently satisfying my needs. I wonder if you are currently satisfying yours.

##### Tutorials, videos and courses
I've certainly noticed that I don't feel satisfied when I do the fragmented experience of day in and day out tutorials and books. For me, for my well-being and continued growth, I need to stay connected to all the things that matter to me. That is, if I allow a strange mini world of activities to replace the big sky I've seen and care about, I start to feel depressed, disconnected from myself and beached on a shore that doesn't want me, value me or care about all the things I dream about and have to offer. Quite simply, I can't endlessly do tutorials, courses or videos. I need real projects, real people to engage with and reasons for writing code that go beyond 'making myself feel like I have such-and-such a skill'. The disjointed jigsaw of half-participation and half-knowledge that happens when I go from one tutorial, course or video to another has little in common with the things that I know bring out the best in me: caring, taking responsibility and working with others. 

For my programming journey to be true to who I am and what I need, it must have the stuff of life in it. Tutorials *can* be nice. There are lots of wonderful, effective communicators out there; I can, have and will continue to benefit from their passion, hard work and good intentions. But once you know about the warmth of the sun, it is not enough to experience just the thin line of colour you can see at sunrise. As interesting as tutorials, books and courses are, they do not compare to lending someone a hand or overcoming a current limit in how effectively you can act on your values. 

I feel I have learned this lesson many times over: brief things grow no fruit. For me, I need to engage with programming in the same way I try to engage myself as father to a dependent or as romantic partner to an equal: as a  *being for*, a *going to* and a *staying with*. All that investing, committing and caring - that full and beautiful daylight that makes life worth living. Shining yourself into the life you live with the commitment to not turn away when things are hard and as the willingness to create something, maintain and renew it, and to be present. I'm writing this because maybe you need the same and you just haven't said it to yourself yet. Or maybe you don't. Either way, I hope that by expressing my own needs, and discussing things throughout this readme in such an unorthodox and flowery way, that it helps you overhear yourself telling you what you are most needing.

Yet I can't help but think that there must be others like me. Living a life has changed me. If you are a career changer, I wonder if living a life has changed you in similar ways too. I'm hoping this repository can help people with similar feelings to the ones I have just shared find a new direction for their programming journey - a direction they are desperately needing. To have some chance of helping other people like me, I'm going to share the process of creating a project that is real, usable, able to grow with me, that has relevance from the very beginning, and which is something I actually care about.


#### What to build?
Let's say you are onboard with the idea but you don't know what to build. My advice would be to ask yourself: 'What tool would help me act on my values more effectively in the world?'. Then try to build some small part of whatever the answer is, and continue to grow the tool you are building as long as it feels relevant and connected to your values and situation. Meanwhile, document your progress and reflect on the things you learn; in many ways, you are your own greatest teacher - your *only* teacher - and it is empowering to remember that. 

#### You can learn
Just as with learning guitar, riding a bike or indeed dying, so too with learning to be a professional programmer; there is no one else who can take your place and go through those things for you. If someone else *does* somehow go through those experiences for you, then *they* are the ones who will do whatever it is that is done when a person dies, who will learn to program and who will learn to ride a bike. It certainly won't be you. Yet you don't need someone else to do it for you; *you* can be the person that learns to program. 

After all, learning to program is what happens to you when *you* program. It doesn't happen when you dabble or dart or flit across things; you learn when you get *involved*. Indeed, you have an incredible superpower - you will learn whatever it is you get yourself involved in. I think that is just fanstatic. I encourage you to have gratitude towards yourself - your amazing, capacious and magical self - because you are always standing in the wings ready to give yourself gifts. Incredible gifts. You gift yourself everything you will ever need when you make the decision to always participate, always take responsibility, always connect and always be involved. So build, care, turn up and learn to program. 

#### Final Words
I wish you the very best and encourage you to be liberated of all worry. No one is special; so take off all the cruel yokes you judge yourself with. There is enough noise in the world already. Don't bother with things that make you doubt, compare or fear. Truly, you don't need to spend a single moment more wondering about whether or not you are good enough. You don't need to figure out whether the reason you are unemployed, or employed at a particular salary, or in a certain industry, because someone knows the truth about your real worth and limits. You are and have everything you need already: the ability to choose and commit. So there is no point thinking about what level you need to reach or what you believe is currently excluding you from entry. Simply care, take responsibility, build and throw yourself wholeheartedly forward through time and into encounters with other people. That is how we become programmers. It is the journey I am on and I think it is a wonderful journey.

Ultimately, I want to salute you for choosing to be the one who turns up to learn how to program; whether some of that learning happens here, elsewhere, this way or in another way, it will always be you who is doing it. That is why I salute you. In fact, I hold that part of you and that part of myself in the highest esteem. I'll sign off with a reminder to myself and hopefully with something you find inspiring: even though we can know for sure that we are not at all special, we can be just as confident that every choice to turn up and care will without fail create something that is. 

Warren
